<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
  <title>Calibre Quick Start Guide</title>
  <link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>

  <h1 class="center" id="help">Where to get help</h1>

  <p>The first place to look for help is in the ‘Preferences’ dialog. All options have clear descriptions, and there are a lot of options. If you want to change something about calibre there may already be an option for it. It’s also a good idea to familiarize yourself with the preferences because parts of it, such as conversion, are just defaults and will be presented to you at different times for fine-tuning on a per e-book basis.</p>

  <p>The next place to look is the <a href="https://manual.calibre-ebook.com">online user manual</a>. Click the ‘Help’ button in the tool bar to have the user manual open in your browser. There is a wealth of information in the user manual including tips and solutions to common problems. It’s also a good idea to check the calibre <a href="https://manual.calibre-ebook.com/faq.html">FAQ</a> for answers to common questions.</p>

  <p>Finally, there is the <a href="https://www.mobileread.com/forums/forumdisplay.php?f=166">calibre forum</a> on <a href="https://www.mobileread.com/">Mobileread</a> which is the official help forum. There are a number of knowledgeable users who answer questions. Also, Kovid and myself actively participate in helping new and veteran users. If you have a question or need help this is the best place to go. If you’ve found a bug or would like to request a new feature it’s okay to ask about it on the forum but it’s also a good idea to submit it to the projects <a href="https://bugs.launchpad.net/calibre">bug/issue tracking system</a>. Forum posts tend to get lost over time while the tracking system makes it easy to see what needs fixing or worked on.</p>

</body>

</html>